quiero que sientas extasis por la vida, quiero que vivas el ego, quiero que puedas demostrar que soy mejor que tu por esto, quiero sentir tu prepotencia, quiero crear al superior, quiero crear al sujeto que esta sobre los demas quiero crear a los sujetos que por sus capacidades mentales y fisicas se encuentran en niveles superiores a los demas, y demostrar que se puede llegar a ellos, que los limites que tenemos nosotros en esta vida son lo maximo, que los extremos de nuestro ser es lo mas bello que tenemos que la maravilla de nosotros poder vivir todo este conjunto de formas de complejidades de batallas, de uno contra uno, de expresiones mucho mas superiores a hacer un gol, de expresiones mucho mas superiores a un ajedrez, hablo de la convinacion de los mismos hablo de la unificacion de todas estas caracteristicas con tal de desarrollar un plano de conciencia practico en el cual todos los sujetos quieran mas, se muevan por mas de esto, vivan el sexo del intelecto vivan el placer de los sentidos, vivan la presion de poder poner su ser al limite, quiero que los sujetos que estan viviendo todos estas maravillas puedan sentir la vida y que la vida les puede proveer un sitio en el cual pueden avanzar de manera cuantificable medible y aplicable, un sitio en el cual las personas convulsionen por mas de esto, esten desesperadas por ponerse a prueba a todo momento, puedan moverse a full puedan entrar en este mismo estado de un nose que que me tiene no se que, que me hace no se que, que me eleva a un no se que, que me hace un no se que, me lleva a un no se donde, que me pide un todo.

when i recongize how this evolution of the selve could be implemented in a expresion of the everything i could notice how i could move the pieces of this feeling in a actual description of the all, i just need the money i just need the way how to get all the proportions that this variable solicitate to start and begin multiplicate in every being that are already living with me and with themselves, i just need someone who give trust in my idea, who trust that this relation of complexities can be united in one only adiction, the adiction of the inteligence, the adiction at the dance of my particularities being related with action of every singular object that im seen, touching and listened, the emotion that transport my categories into a new conception of my posibilities, and how the relation of the all, and how the relation of the systems can be united to be adquired into a single on unique movement of the human expresion, the same expresion that convex with the one who is livining with me and share the same moment where i deploy all this marvelous dream.

i got the evolution of the game, the two next evolution of the game, all the time i had the answer, i just needed the moto, i got the competitivity that evolve the complexity, i got the knowledge compressed in a motion.

create a wireless communication API for University project.

thats how they experiment what im living, transporting the think to the moment in the infinity timeline where the expresion of idea take place, thats how they interpret the all. beings that are living the all, they are studing their same live in my particular way. and at the same time conceive the totality of the now by living their's own life, but with a cost, the lost of their personal expresion, their love.

it really was worth it? losing the opportunity of living and loving yourself for living my live, and everyone elses's?

this conception is an interesting approach of the total, it give's meaning to the actions of the others, it gives position to the one who is aside me.

thats how they compensate all the bad actions i do manifesting ugly things, they try to make me unconfortable with myself, make me guilthy for being human.
when you perceive the reality what are you living now as a laboratory of the conciense you begin to release that who you are is simplement a being who just need yo eat an stay clean everything else is context.

the actors of the protagonist, the same protaginist that are also director of his theater of his scene, of his being.
the lie that they no what to him know.

The good that we are searching is the god that we got in our total conception, the expresion of our true being is our god, the one's who search in other places that themselves get lost, the path of the hero is the searching of my lost, of my love, of my self. the one's who treat to scape, latetly recognize that there is no scape the self, but you can be in a place where the self feel in communion with itself.

divide and conquer, the god strategy. the god love.

the one's who lived the lost can create the lost.

you are here to entertaint and to be enterteined.

the best lie will be, make you thought that there is something else, something more superior in this reality, make you believe that here in this present time the expresion of the mind could be overloaded to a new ratio of perception like one where mistikal being, like fairy's, god's, angel's, goblins, and every else imaginary creature could manifest you as the fantasy books do, this could be the perfect lie, because the context already have those creatures, the angel's, the fairy's, the goblins already exist in this present time, but not explicity like the books and the imagination could hypertransform. 
if they make you believe that there is something bigger more infinite, than the things you already got, is because they want you make believe that, by traying to transform you's believes and your perception. making you select without reflection the chaotic, the inform, the inhistoric plane, that plane where the dream and the position of yourself dont play the all that you are.
this instant this present time could make you follow and reach your dream's, this continual line of limits make you feel make you what you are, because literally this instant is the contextualization of your divine character, this present time that both of us are experimenting is the time where you plasm your force, your creativity, the infinity that the super conciense got for you, to draw, paint, build and sculpt what you are. 
that's what the lie treat to make you, that's what lies treat to make you lost, that's what you need to keep and reach.

the meaning of life reside in figth for something that you once truly want, even when in your current time seems meaningless.

an option on the mmo game where the players can create their owns champion, with their owns animation, and whit their owns definition of balance in habilities in ralation with the diferents habilities of study-words, reaching by this the option where community expand, vote, and hand voice in the expresion of how the company work's and how it here the options.

memory was builded for remember that you have dreams.

if you play may game at least learn 5 lenguages, tha's a really good aproach, where we can start to aford something.

everything begin when the person recongnize how to plasm his mind in the reality to reach more of it.

i want a game, with league of legends mechanics, of hitbox and camera view, with the option of the mmo farm lvl's, whit multiple power's, and habilities that can be loaded with minigames where words play the exchange medium, between my mind and the reality, between the inteligence and the present time, then i want diferent npc's with artificial inteligence that make me get into mechanical and reflex zone, the capacity of teletransport in the game map zone where i can reload my powers.
then i want that the game will pe played with the keyboard. but with a Trackpad as pointer-cursor, where i will shot the habilities, afterward the posibiliti of ramdon maps with diferent kind's of bost, and habilities upgrade around the same.
with colision of habilities that produce in the player the necesity of predict where the oponent would be.

remember yourself everytime, remerber that you exist, and remember that there is no one more important in yourlife than yourself.

im talking to my dream.

your living what you want to live, literally, the things that around you, and the way how the world teach you make you understand what you really want, what you really seeking for.

the people ask what it's the point? and i answer, what is your point.