we need a common dream.

what if i am god's dream.	

every time the ball, metaphor was expressed to me in my timeline, everytime i notice how this expresion was presented to me in a indirect way, placed in my daily perception and action of the moment, make me accustom of it for dont questioned it.
the bull methaphor, the tauros, the cow's, that animal being who i was intimated related, even my first cow was named "carrito" like if it was the vehicle of my life, a really well thinked plan.

the inteligence was given to us for play.

everything in life begin with start to know.

if you start to surf in the sea of knowledge you begin to meet relation with things, you begin to adquire position in the wit and the wit start to take position in you, but information-data in knowledge is quite infinite, so the position of the human, and the student of the now, is to take the charge to transform these limitless into limit, but how, where do you start? where can you begin, where?, there is to much of everything, there is a lot of all, there are to much all in itself, but stay calm and think that you already are here and the unique thing that you must do with your life is enjoy it, and entertain yourself with this beutifull and miracles world.
but when you start to thought in ways of how can entertaint yourselft you start to realize that this could be a really complex and at the same as the knowledge infinite, there are to much values that can be used to make you enjoy the moment, there are to much magnitudes that can be related one another to make pleasure in you, you are commintment with yourlive to make it enjoyable, so start dreaming awake and make that all your dreams could be realized here. all the options that the divinity inside of you want to reach make you real with the position and the constancy of your determinism.

So when you are in the zone, and you are ecstasy of all the posibilities i want to make you be more in raptures, i want to transport you to the doors of the chillhood everyday, i want to transport you to the doors of the first time when you said your first word, i want to make you rapt in mental pleasure of the real important thing in the universe the relation of simbols, the lenguage, i want to be a kid every day of my life, i want to play with my mind in the game of knowledge.

everything is question of perception.

can we use the phonetic alphabet to make base sample sound's of the words, that the player's would imitate to reproduce the most similar wave sound?
i mean force the players learn to sing, to standardize the vocal sound's, of the base sample wave sound that the voice produce.

In the game mmo kill sbirroz, create combos and diferent kind of related action make the player adquire more damage to the boss room.

i remember playing "stop" in the school and it was a really awesome game, but it didnt complain my expectations, but as a part of the total what i rigth now reaching makesme understand that literally i was living in the crop of my dream.

create a game mode where the players by playing give us data of what are the most popular words, and that would be the number 1:1 relation between transtaltions.

you study for the awesome things that you will do.

the practice made the master but the master always is practicing himself, that's how he entertaint and improve his being.

you make me believe that some wrong things are atall wrong, you make me question myself.

make the evolution inevitable.

what if the people who get defeated by the presion of the now that choose to transform their reality in a completly dream, and for that their achive inmortality but at the same time the imposibility to live a history, and to take participation in something that time ago belong to them, for this conception they'll be forced to take participation in sleepers beings who dont notice yet how powerfull and ilimitate they could be, for that reason the awakened be forced to perform all kind's of dramas, and builded scenarios with all kind of psychological beliefs that contradict one to each other, to make the being that dont perceibe the performance, explote his normal conception and choose by presure the same decision that the awakened choose.

Im living the dream that i been building since i started to conceive myself.

I notice now how they o you, try to make my past unconscious selft decide for the infinite, when i notice that finite is the most beitifull gift ever created, you started to work in all kind of strategies to make me weak at the time for the real important decision, your own singular and unique creation, or the infinite?, what you choose if there is no comeback.

when you taste the truth the lie never would be taste as good as it was.

Game mode MMO, where the player in the minigames need to translate a text word by word, this could be related with an medium-high lvl skill power.

When i see my dream they probably saw two things, the one's who choose the path of fullfill their dreams, and the one's who choose the second door, the exit door of their lover.

the reason why you are here is to develop complexity in your creation.

every being even if they don't want, even if they choose to leave his lover, or if they achieved they capacity to rise up his lover to the dream category, everyone need to communicate the history, the model, the live, the dance steps, the receipe, the parts, the skill, the emotional timing, the total, that we are living since the creation of the all, we are living the expresion of our ancestors in our particular linear succession of events. even when we are living the same amount of expressions.

the idea of all this history was stay sleep and reach the dream.
not awake and then reach the dream.

the mmo map could be generated randomly, and the walls, floors, and biosystem could be used to create complexity, the biosystem-ecosystem, must be interpreted as season's, or kind of ambient where the player in relation with his kind of mechanics display all kind of options that make the solution of the lvl harder. with the add of Ecosystem, we can development a mechanics where the player in relation with the Ecosystem, an upgrade of the habilities that make the more interesting the battles.

create a mouse finger for the thumb finger, that make the game more interesting.

what happens when two IAs, batlles one each other.

create a way where the librarys of words, divided in different kind's of subject's related with the players, and where those players can vote to decide what kind's of words are the appropiates to the different types of librarys, performing the game in a good client - company relation, where the specific public that we are targering as a company choose by their studied the words that could define a subject.

beings that are capable of access to different realities, dont need to acces to another complexities, they now how to reach that lvl, they just one entertainment.

make repentance fruitful-worthit

at the end you didnt know how to approach me in my sleep, drugs, vicious, mistakes, errors, and a lot of stupid thing's to make me understand what you been hiden since my beginning, you didnt make your work, never taught to me how to reach a dream. never share to me how to love, never taught me nothing, and i you're going to appeal to the inconsistency of the duality possiton let me tell you, i love you.

you must always remember the end to avoid being absorbed along the way.

the way how you access to options is divided your conscious into different parts, to achive the same mental capacity as me, and start planing your machinations of how to destroy me to the point of choose the infinite as same as you choose. but here is the inconsistency we already are living in it, the peculiarity is both of us are living in the finite-infinite that we build.

what if they try to make you leave your responsability of change the world to make you participate in the suffer of the one's who made the same mistakes, and acting all of your life as the bad of the principal character-director of the reality.

the human being just need, food, health, cloth, a place to sleep, and a place to do his necesities(defecate, urinate, a clean body).

that's all a human need, so how we can made a world where the human envieroment be satisfied, how can we made the relation's of everything to be interconected to the preview mentioned necesities.
how we can now that we are achieving an advance in these areas, how we can evolve with society to accomplish the human dream.

if we can achieve that level of conscious we health the phisical world at least, the matter here is how can we do that.

I believe in my answer, if we can create a positive addiction where every subject here in the moment know of the path of the other one via a game, where the game 

camaras de dormir.
una manera de detectar la limpieza de una habitacion o de un objeto  o sujeto de manera veloz, crear cultivos automatizados con el objetivo de proveer como minimo un tipo de comida para todo el planeta, algo así como arroz en masa, o maiz en masa (masa = cantidad), un manera de producir un tipo de ropa de manera barata he industrial con el fin de estandarizar el tipo de vestido de los sujetos, una manera de cuantificar el perfil de los sujetos con el objetivo de saber que tipo de beneficios a recibido, baños publicos de manera industrial, una manera de limpiar el cuerpo sin la necesidad de recurrir al agua, que los sujetos que hagan uso de las soluciones para las necesidades que proveera el estado, se sometan a las reglas necesarias para que esto se pueda cumplir, por ejemplo, el corte de pelo bajo, evita generar suciedad, crear centros de lavado industrial que se encargen de lavar un tipo de ropa estandar de manera industrial. 

every thing i just mention can be achieved by an addiction to the study, if we can make every being addicted to something they can put his effort in a quantificate enviorment we can do all those thing directioning the subject's in the game in relation with the kind of knowledge that the person who want to participate in the general game of healt the human being, that's the only thing that we need, but how, how can we populate the particular- with something general in a specific intelectual biosystem?, the only answer i got is the lenguage, if we can apportion every specific subject in subthemes, where the player-student by the constant practice of the lenguage translate relation, he can conceibe a new world, a new perception of the specific theme of his interest.
a really good question here is how someone know what kind of specific knowledge to focus his effort. how to answer that awesome queistion, the solution i got again is the game, if the player-student, by watching (as now they do), games of the diferent kinds of educational subjects-themes, where he can by constantly relation with an addictive enviroment admire and find an idol, someone who he admire that make into him the motivational ignition that improve the motion of his conception and by this unfold and reveal the true porpouse of his all, that could be the real answer of this moment, by this way we can form a supersystem that direction the being to a new mental ratio where all his singular efforts in their timeline can be observable, enjoyable, comparable, and over all with the purpose meaning.

fix the world the video game- human version, lived the live of a medium high person and the way how you think stablish how the world that around you can be perceived, you'll fall in love with yourself, you'll make mistakes, you'll be driven to insane, you're gona believe even that you're god, moreover you'll be lied in a lie, you can be whatever you want, and all your decision change the way how you history evolve, dont be the last one on play it, release day, since the begining of the existence.

the people need some place to see and feel that they are advancing, they need a way to carry and show how they have been trying to rise up his life in their live day, that's what im trying to make, i want to create a place-palace of the knowledge where every body can put his mental capacities in coperation his senses to reach a social state of knowing.

beuty is do everything that make your future easy, annexing the complexity necesary to remember a well lived live.
