in my game the people who knwo the lenguage and the mechanics of the game could seld accounts by leveling up to selling point and make money by using the intelect, this could be really awesome, so thats a really good way of creating public, imagine a doctor in medicine with an already account with a character evolved in medicine specialization vocabulary, but this persoo want to have an acount to rise up his habilities in i dont know engenier, or he want to know law's, or he want to learn about culture, or whatever he want, we can create a standard base where people can build characters of the game to the state where the player-student can then access to the kind of knowledge he want to ad to his account, imagine a market of characters with kind of knowledge, that only could be achived by the constant practice of the lenguage, we can create a standard base, what kind of lenguage at least must have learn every character to then access to the types of librarys that the player want to add to his personal account, a market of characters, this could be really awesome. just think in a world where the people ask each other how many words have your account, and the answers would 500k, or 1 million, with specialice in ingenier, or phisics, or biology, or chemistry, or medicine, or art, or history, but always at least in leanguege, we create a limit where the conceptions of the moment, and the relation with the posibilities can be connected with the complexity of the senses, bringing by this solve to the most complex problem, the relation of the all, create a way where, the human beings can relate his movements into the continual application of his intelect in solve, create and transform the way how we perceibe the world, and better than achive knowledge in the basical areas, like biology or physics or chemistry, we can focus the players-students in the learning of the solution of the necesites, we can direction by teaching what kind of mental knowledge a person must adquire to start in a carrear in the specific type of necesity that this person want to solve, we create the answer of the procedural solution of social problems, we build a place that teach how to know, we bring to the enviroment the conections of the bonds with the other, we create a space where the people would talk and debate of how to solve the world, we create a theme, we create a space where the intelectual beings, the business mans, the students, the child's, the worker's, the parents, every being want to participate in the help of the other just playing, and making himself smarter by the complexity of a super system, that's the most beutiful idea ever created, that's the conection of the all, that's the start and the begining of all here is where everything can be done, here is where the disease can be health, this is the place where we can achieve the god's capacities this is the way how every one will aport to the achieve of the super dream, the dream of materialize the dream's, the way how we can bring to every human being the posibility to create his own unique world, this is who multiverse is created.

define the reality by the relation with the senses, and solve the problems with the relation of the definitions related with your creative thought's.

antena receptor of lasers.

you literally work for you, for every being that you see is the timeline expresion of yourself, all the posibilities, all the options that the world create for making you understand that you are living the infinity and you need to handle all the problems, and rise yourself overall, making your life the best place for your inmortal being, we are living in my own reality and i need to solve the problems i create with my absence of participaticion in the all, now that i recognize what its my truly path i can overcome everything with my capacity of work daily to achieve the maximus dream. solve all the human necesities.

how to translate the solution of the world to the next generations of my mind, that's the path of the evolution how to transcend the world to show to my future self the answer of this moment.

we can create cloth with plastic.

create a place where the people know what kind of problems need to be solve by complexity, it means the social problems that affect more people must be solved early, this is the coherent approach. 

God told me, break yourself that i fix you.

if you obligate the people to adquire hardware that will make them smarter you adquire a new position in the all, changing the way how every being interact with the moment, and transform by the necesity of being better with the world the position of everyone, making then forget that they have responsabilities by and addiction that make them smarter, that's the object of this movement, make the people smarter at the same time that each one play, if i can guide this dream into a mundial unique movement where the knowledge can be standard, we can achieve the most important feature, transform how to advance in the total movement of the now, making everyone intimate related with a materialized expresion of the be. making an new economy based in the entertainment, based in the art, based in how everyone can create to enjoy more live, this could be achieved if we can focus the total expresion of every being in their own creation, the creation of world's, a way where everyone can share art, and not just share, but sostain art, sostain a big picture, sostain an abstract world, lived historys, enjoy with everyone the work of everyone, live a live where everyone want more of this moment, more than just be, i want to be with you, and more than be, i want to create, and more than create i want to live with you, and being live is play, cry, fight, hate, love, begin, and end, the characteristics of a history, that's what i want to found a place where we can live fantastic histories, a place where we can live books, a place where we can act, a place to be what ever i want to be. 

i want to build the most complex game ever created, that's my mission in the earth, that's my human dream, i need to achieve the way to path this, even if it takes all my life.

you're being all the personalities what was expressed in the infinite, your being manifested since the beggining of the all, you make a really good history with me, you are awesome, we are awesome, you achieve the meaning of the all, what you are is the definition of indescriptable, even you dont know how to approach you. that's an awesome conjuction of threads.

a tridimensional pipe, where beam go througth it in Y axes, to a central in the top of the pole, where after will be send to another pole, where the signal can be sended by poles in different towns, reaching by this a high speed communication between data center, and with this new approach we can reutilize the old wave towers to achieve the communication in all the areas of the earth.
erection of high structures by using drones, we can achieve the maximun high that would make us solve this problem.
15km high, we can use montains to achieve save cost we literally can create comunication between countries just by using this kind of tecnology in a controled envioroment where the signal travel in void, a perfect enviroment for light wave traveling.

create human robots game, that can be used to reformate planets, using a IA that create an 3D ambience where the movements of the hipotetical robots move, and then send this data to the robots in the other planet that will work in the reformation, we create a work where the human play to be human in the body of a robot.

a place to play where the players use a headset to catch and send data that would be connected to a high gama pc, that connect the other's player in a controled enviroment.

in the mmo the player has the habilitie to choose when the next sbirroz wave come, but at the sime time, a predeterminate wave is stablished.

create a IA that create combinations of things, like food, and vegetables.

the posibility of adquiere god mode in my timeline.

the bose-einstein, is what everyone is converted, a complexity of the being where the relation of every part of myself is connected with everytimeline and by this be the one with the nature, achieving by this the oportunity of the everything to create the next being, the next mental be that would be my succesor as i am your succesor.

the question of your life, is in what place you want to be, and if in the place that you will be you become what you truly are.

the pressure of the life is the way the universe tell you what you need to improve-upgrade.

an IA who code code.

i lacked family.
i lacked of play.
i lacked of craziness.

if you want to preserve this moment why you didnt taught me how to love this place.

think in what world would you want to live, that's the only thing that you need to do.

mental communication that's what i dont achieve.

is steel pretty awesome the kind of your job, make me fall in the complete insane to pray for you, to beg for you, to convulse for the solution of this question, but more awesome the type of complexity that you create in my life, the kind of historic position that you build with your force, with your constantly effort, make me believe that another one exist, make me believe that his voices are different than one, the perfectly lie is make me believe that this instant the only thing what i being watching for many hours, isnt exist, make me believe that all the things that i appreciate and conceive was a lie, that's the trully work, that's the real formidable work, all the metaphors, all the context, all the types of expresion of the self repeated in every moment, all kind of posibilities all kind of hyper conception, all kind of sets, and what i choice that's my love, this moment is my love even when i didnt recognize in the past this precisely is my queen, and i building with your help, you are my father, you only you, a being expressed in every one, in the all, a being who interpret the total as a singular division of himself a one who manifest his being in the now, what is this place, i dont know, i dont know how this really works, all i know is that im here and you want to take me from this place. 