create a way in the mmo where the player first need to know what kind of habilities have the sbirro to then procede, the habilities of the sbirros are a colition block skillshot, that would make the game more aleatorius, each esbirro depend of his lvl has more habilities, and more complexity, i mean a sbirro lvl 1 has one hability with low battle lvl, and a lvl 10 has 4 habilities, with all kind of boost of characterictics like healt and velocity, and movement capacities, armor, high percent of rare drops, with a high lvl of battle. creating by this a wave game whit all kind of possibilities.
a player has the posibility to access to one teleport for wave.

the great genius is the one who recognize his hability of his mental capacity to achieve transformation of the now by his total conception of himself and how he by the training of the self adquire all kind of habilities related with the computation, like animation and IA interaction with his own self, a person who know that this instant moment this actual timeline is all that he could adquire and by this recognize that he is capable of everything just because it has the same variables that compose what his senses experiment, that's what dream are, the maxima expression of the self, the maxima expresion of the one, the hability of create whatever your senses and your inteligence want to perceibe just by thinking, that's the maximus expression of computation, the maximus expresion of the mathematical definition, the maxima expesion of the self, is what the religion always told you, i remember when i was a child listen the song of the moztasa bean, and how if i believe as a moztasa bean i adquire the hability to move montains, that's the power of religion. what else you want?.

create a minigame inside the mmo where the player must solve questions like what translate this acronym.

use the top 1000 books of each branch of basic science and obtain the top 50000 words more used then by adquire this data, we can procced to obtain again the 50000 words most used in each root, achieving by this a general aspect where the player can start to interact wiht high lvl lexic. 

a computer maded by cells.

imagine a classroom where the students study the history of a book by inmersing themselves in a reality where an IA tell the story.

The money is the top entertainment in the world.

the man who lead more money can be whatever he want to be, and do whatever he want to do. even the law is scared of him. but the man who lead more money want to be satisfied by the battle, by the engagement with other beings who treat to beat his podium, this is what the humanity build a kind of entertaiment where the top tier ones tussle for the maximus rangus in power. this is the real game.

void rooms where the gravity is to low, that the player's can jump and do all kind of things related with the game that they are playing, with padded walls. 

que determina que una fuerza sea mayor que otra, que determina que un sujeto tiene mas poder que otro, como se puede poner a prueba la inteligencia de los sujetos, como se generar competencia del intelecto.

la tecnologia se hizo para que las reglas sean estructuradas.

we need to achieve the battle of the inteligence in the invents.
which team with the same conditions can create first something already invented.

we need another reality.

A Virtual game survival, where the player's of a school, college, or university work together to defeat the IA. the students by the relation of each other can achieve the real understanding of the material things, making by this a improve in the way how they learn achieving by this a new concept of the now, and overall adquire practical knowledge that could make them more capable for response to the necesities in a world where literally need to be responsable for it, this is the kind of unity we need to approach to adquire the next conception of the all, the next generation, need to be overloaded with concepts, overloaded with knowledge, how we can achieve beings who dont get absorbed by all of the data that need to be study to adquiere an advance in the future, this is a really important point, this is the crutial point. 

suits that detect player interaction with the enviorment, we need to create a relation with the games and the rules combined with tecnology, cloth that change the color when the player interact with the other player, and the context of the game create a sucetions of actions where the other need to follow becouse the actions implemented with the envioroment they are inmersed, for example, in games like airsoft, if we create a way where the cloth of the player and arms, interact with the contact of the bullets we achieve a game that follow an inmerse ambience, that is related with the communication of the pieces.

para jugar se necesitan 2.

The reason why every company work is for the entertainment of the people that's the higher point in the company of the world, when we realiaze that we are here to be stimulated and gripped for all kind of things, we start to advance to something, we can achieve this type of live with the most advance complexity the reality, we can adquiere this kind of life by the study of the reality we already builded, we can achieve a new conception of the now by the relation of the people who build a particular that is part of the all. 

a super game where the top tier education centers of the world between the high top ones like doctors, and scientific, to college students, to bachellors, to school students be group in a a super match super battle of the inteligent's where every one participate in the formation of tecnology to achieve supremacy over the other group adquiring by this the opportunity to elevate the knowledge of the best students addressing their focus into a practical enviroment develpment the intelect to achieving by this people who understand how the teamwork works, and by this understanding how awesome they could be, all of this with a focus on mind, transcend the way how we perceive the world, to transport this kind of mental force in the capitalization of the solar system, with all of the resources in this, with the object to fullfil all the basic necesities of every human being, or more realistic, solve the basic necesities where of the most. 

but the main idea is to achieve a super game where we can battle with our intelect, and with or senses, imagine the doctor in physics quantic and computer, with a laser gun.

we need to advance in science for the unique reason to play games that make us get adrenaline of give it all, a style play were the player dont be affair of the consequences could happen if a bad thing occur.

evolve the way how to separate matter specificaly trash, if we can achieve a perfect concept of recycle we solve basically everything. 

the thumb mouse could be like a pencil used in the drawpads, or can be as a mouse pad, or like an optical mouse but a minimal scala.

be! thas it

what is the middle point between limits and limitless?

we need people working for theirself, in an exponential way.

felling empty for knowing that this moment has been repeated since the beginning and all im doing is reuniting with the all, and all i do has no purpose rather than teach the next sucessor, and begin everything again and again, and again, and again. maybe that's the point of the senses, maybe they were created to elevate our love for the momento, and feel (because that's the point of the senses) that the study of them could be exponentiated to different lvls. finally that's the point of dream, feel the things that in reality couldn't happen without the persistance in the work of change. 

it bothers me that I was the cause of all my regrets