un entorno magnetico desde el cual se suspende al jugador logrando de esta manera la libertad de movimiento desde los 360 grados esfera, lo que aun me pregunto es como lograr que los sujetos puedan experimentar las sensaciones fisicas sin el dolor, de los golpes, por ejemplo de caida, sin embargo con la simulacion de una caida, superando de esta manera los parametros fisicos.

se me acaba de ocurrir una idea estupenda, fantastica, maravillosa, una lista desplegable al momento de copiar una palabra esta se guarde en la lista que posteriormente aparecera en pegar. logrando de esta manera tener textos o palabras a la mano, esto muy util en el caso de los programadores.

Que las personas que hagan uso del juego de las palabras traduzcan libros, y que las mismas personas determinen si la traduccion del libro fue correcta, logrando de esta manera establecer un crecimiento intelectual en las personas promoviendo por medio de esto una transformacion total en la manera en que el mundo se despliega.

a being that everytime he wake up from sleep, wake up into another reality.

the game of the histories, a game where the spectator choose what kind of history he want to see, with all kind of decisions, a programed animation, with high quality definition, and you can achieve the option to teach everyone how the world work, by the creation of individual histories, by the creation of personal complexities, by the understanding of the personal being into a new elevate concepts.

combinaciones historicas.

program that download all the files inside a webpage.
program that download youtube playlist.
program that stream music.

Everything converge in life, each moment in this life is related with itself, all that matters is life, if we can achieve a way to improve life to a ratio where everyone reach his self into a relation with someone he would adquiere the maximun grade of enjoy. but for this we need something that relate us and bond us, we need enterntainment, we need the polarities of religion to increase the force of differences, or even better the forces of the sustain of life of the beings who interpret the now in his own way, the beings who think that this precisely moment is a contextualization of their own life, beings who define the world in their own way, beings who in the inmensity complexity achieve a way of knowledge and understanding and by this created a road of beleiving, a road that form and make them world, a world where their conception of natural diverge in my own concept of natural, the concept of differences in thinking beings, the concept of combinations of believing, the maximus context in the now. 
by this unique condition of the thinking mind, the one appreciate the now in a way where all the characteristic converge in a unique posibility of sustain, the posibility that make myself all the voices, the posibility that make myself the all, the posibility that make myself the writer of all these ideas, the chooser of all, include the history what im living and perceiving rigth now.
and what i conceibe in my living and perceiving are the decisitions of my actual own life living my own life in my own study of myself, understanding all what was and what will, understanding all that is and is, or even better. all what i am and am.
this is the complexity what im rising since my first perception the creation of something to love like it exist, something to with relate, something to make me feel my life like there is more else in it. the ultimate meaning, the meaning of unity, the meaning which eliminate the existence of the other, the meaning who leave me alone with myself, the sadnest feeling in life.
and then religion told you that sex is bad, and then religion told you that feel the body, the breathing of someone else, the warm of the other, the voice near your ear, the heart beating, the hand grips, the passionate glances, the wailings, the fragances of extasys of the mutual participation, the sweat of enjoyment, the  currents of trance, and finally the tiredness and exhaustion in charge of making you feel the other.

at the end of the day everything summary in a single proposition, what you want?.

the feeling of fear is the most amazing evolution advance.
fear is life.

in the mmo game, we can agregate complexity by adding different prediction lvl's of dodge skillshot, it could be like this, by diferent kind's of animation's of the same shooting area, obligating by this the focus of the player in the different animations of the sbirro while he advance in his lvling.

how can be a negative of something, how can be a negative of a expresion when the elements of everything can be followed, even your what you eat can be followed, the water you drink, pee, and transpire, can be followed, the objects you touch, the air you breath can be followed, how can be and negative expresion in other place than you, the complexity of a society who create the textualization of the negative, of the minus in a place where anything would be minus than what already exist, the states of matter what told us that can never be created or destroyed, only changed and rearranged. but whe create something to destroy, and something to build, we create something to evolve, and the same time the things which make us grow are the same things that make us involve, we create the most precious system, never created, never thinked, never contained, imposible of negate, but we create at the same time, the feelings who are in charge of make us life that we could be negated by ourselves, we create a game that compose the advance and at the same time something to hold back, we create in the imposibility of lost , the feeling of it, uniquely to achive at the same time the feeling of victory. victory's that create the feeling of advance, victory's that create with his existence the implicit emotion of meaning, meaning what make us live, and more than that, the meaning to live for the other.
we create difficulty in the void of animal nature, we create something to talk, we create something to believe, we create something for our selves, something to show to ourselves and to the other that we want to be with them, that we can make them feel that this moment is a enjoyable moment, a beutifull place to be, we create the value of the content, we create the polarities which make us feel that go to a beach and walk next to the sand, mean something more than any other hike, we create the value of work, and how this can be cuantificate, and how this can be perceive by the senses, we create the polarity of emotions, we add value to the conceptions of the know, we add the hability of discriminate and categorizate the bad and good things over the physical senses, the discernment of the bad and good with our intelligence, we are idea beings, we are entities in charge of the unique thing that matter's the things each one want, and here is where everything start to implode.

money the evaluation of the self with the matter, and moral the evaluation of the self with god, if you achieve this two thing's you got everything, but if you want to be more than not bad, you could be a highly being and you could transform the ones who dont achieve the last two goals, you can redeem yourself in other lifes, you can health the world you already are living, and all of this can be achievement with much money, you can start improvening your enviroment, then your town then your city, then your department, then a quarter of your country, then the middle of your country, then your entire country, then your neighbor countrys, and by this you adquire the maximus work, the work of change the way how yourself conceibe the other in other bodys, and different mental relations.